README.md, before:

# Kratix and idpbuilder

The purpose of this project is to demonstrate that we can use [idpbuilder](https://cnoe.io/docs/intro/idpbuilder) as IDPlatform to install [Kratix](https://docs.kratix.io) with fewer efforts as it is needed when using bash scripts or manual steps.

Such a process is simplified as the tool `idpbuilder` allows a user to create locally a kind cluster embedding: Argo CD, Gitea and Nginx ingress 
and where we can easily deploy Kratix.

For that purpose, different Argo CD Applications manifests have been created under the path `idp/<PACKAGE_NAME>` in order to provision the cluster with the following packages:
- `foundation`: installing the mandatory components like: cert-manager, ...
- `kratix`: Deploy the kratix's controller; some default `Destination` and `GitstateStore` resources and register on the gitea server a new git organization: `kratix` and repository: `state`

To create such an IDPlatform, execute the following command with the following ports:

| Name              | Ingress port | Gitea HTTP port | Gitea SSH port | kind config file name                                              |
|-------------------|--------------|-----------------|----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Kratix IDPlatform | 8443         | 32223           | 32222          | [kratix-idp-8443.cfg](idp/kratix-idp-8443.cfg) |

```shell
idpbuilder create --color --dev-password \
  --name kratix \
  --port 8443 \
  --kind-config idp/kratix-idp-8443.cfg \
  -p idp/foundation \
  -p idp/kratix
```

TODO: Convert the `idp/kratix` resources folder into a helm chart able to configure path of the resources, URL of the gitea server, destination's labels, etc

When done, you can access the Argo CD: https://argocd.cnoe.localtest.me:8443 or Gitea - https://gitea.cnoe.localtest.me:8443 dashboards using the following credentials:
```shell
❯ idp get secrets
NAME                          NAMESPACE   USERNAME     PASSWORD    TOKEN                                      DATA
argocd-initial-admin-secret   argocd      admin        developer                                              
gitea-credential              gitea       giteaAdmin   developer   34d333ee4330d441c3da782fd4bc443a848e5a1b   
```

## Test the IDPlatform with a Postgresql promise  

To validate that the platform is working and can operate `promises`, execute the following commands:
```
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/syntasso/promise-postgresql/main/promise.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/syntasso/promise-postgresql/main/resource-request.yaml
```
Wait till the Postgresql operator finished to create the pod running the database and then access the pod

```shell
kubectl rollout status deployment postgres-operator -n default --timeout=180s

kubectl exec -it acid-example-postgresql-0 -- sh -c "
PGPASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret postgres.acid-example-postgresql.credentials.postgresql.acid.zalan.do -o 'jsonpath={.data.password}' | base64 -d) \
PGUSER=$(kubectl get secret postgres.acid-example-postgresql.credentials.postgresql.acid.zalan.do -o 'jsonpath={.data.username}' | base64 -d) \
psql bestdb"
```

## Add new destinations - idpbuilder

To simulate a more natural environment running in a company, we will now create some additional clusters representing either the `dev`, `test` and `prod` machines or different machines created for: `team-1`, `team-2` having different needs, services that kratix can deal with using `Promises` and `requests`.

For that purpose we will create some additional clusters using the `idpbuilder` tool.

So let's create some worker clusters having the following ports

| Name     | Ingress port | kind config file name                      |
|----------|--------------|--------------------------------------------|
| worker 1 | 8444         | [worker-1-8444.cfg](idp/worker-1-8444.cfg) |
| worker 2 | 8445         | [worker-1-8445.cfg](idp/worker-1-8445.cfg) |

As the gitea server is running on the Kratix IDPlatform  at the following address: `http://<HOST_IP_ADDRESS>:32223`, we will have to patch the Application CR of the `kratix-agent` before to deploy. Execute then this command before to create the different workers 

```shell
yq e '.spec.source.helm.valuesObject.giteaServer.url = "http://<HOST_IP_ADDRESS>:32223"' -i idp/kratix-agent/kratix-agent.yaml
```

When done, execute the following command respectively for the `worker-1` and `worker-2`
```shell
idpbuilder create --color --dev-password --recreate \
  --name <WORKER_NAME> \
  --port <INGRESS_PORT> \
  --kind-config idp/<KIND_CONFIG_FILE_NAME> \
  -p idp/kratix-agent
```

When the cluster has been created and Applications deployed, verify their status to check if the Application CR is sync and healthy

```shell
export CONTEXT="kind-worker-1" # set CONTEXT "kind-worker-1"
kubectl --context "$CONTEXT" -n argocd get application -lcluster=worker-1
```
If Argocd is able to watch resources from the kratix IDPlatform gitea server under `kratix/state/<WORKKER_NAME/resources | dependencies`, then you can start to play with Kratix and deploy some promises and requests against the different environments

TODO:
- Find a way to provision the kratix IDPlatform with new Destination CR (one for each worker) worker where path refers to its directory under the git repository: `kratix/state/<WORKER_NAME>` and having environment's labels as: `dev`, `test`, `prod` or `team-a`, `team-b` etc

Enjoy ;-)

## Add new destinations - vclusters (DEPRECATED)

To simulate a more natural environment running in a company, we will now create some additional clusters representing either the `dev`, `test` and `prod` machines or different machines created for: `team-1`, `team-2` having different needs, services that kratix can deal with using `Promises` and `requests`.

For that purpose we will create top of the IDPlatform cluster some additional clusters using vcluster - https://www.vcluster.com/docs

So let's create some vclusters: `worker-1` and `worker-2`
```shell
idpbuilder create --color --dev-password \
        --name kratix \
        --port 8443 \
        -p idp/foundation \
        -p idp/kratix \
        -p idp/vcluster
```


**Note**: To access the cluster, it is needed to execute the command: `vcluster connect worker-2` responsible to create a kubectl's container acting as proxy able to access from your laptop the vcluster.

You can create more vclusters if you change the helm values of the Application CR of [kratix-agents.yaml](idp/kratix-agents/kratix-agents.yaml)
```yaml
        clusters:
          - name: worker-1
            path: worker-1
            organization: team-a
          - name: worker-2
            path: worker-2
            organization: team-b
          - name: worker-3
            path: worker-3
            organization: team-c
```

To uninstall a vcluster: `helm uninstall worker-2 -n worker-2`

TODO:
- Use argocd to install the resources of the kratix's agent instead of deploying them manually with the command `k --context "$WORKER1" apply -f kratix-destination/worker-1-resources.yml`
- Generate using a template engine (aka helm) the resources to be created to:
  - Create a vcluster, deploy argocd
  - Install on the vcluster the generated resources: Argo Applications and Secret to access the gitea server
  - Create and execute a new job able to add on the existing gitea server (under the org/repository: `kratix/state`) the folder of the new destination (aka vcluster)
  - Create for the IDPlatform running Kratix new resources: Destination & GitStateStore to register a new destination (aka vcluster)

```shell
k get secret/vc-config-worker-2 -n worker-2 -ojson | jq -r '.data.config' | base64 -d
```

Commit message:

Review the instructions to create the kratix new destination too usign a helm chart
Signed-off-by: cmoulliard <cmoulliard@redhat.com>

README.md, after:

# Kratix and idpbuilder

The purpose of this project is to demonstrate that we can use [idpbuilder](https://cnoe.io/docs/intro/idpbuilder) as IDPlatform to install [Kratix](https://docs.kratix.io) with fewer efforts as it is needed when using bash scripts or manual steps.

Such a process is simplified as the tool `idpbuilder` allows a user to create locally a kind cluster embedding: Argo CD, Gitea and Nginx ingress 
and where we can easily deploy Kratix.

For that purpose, different Argo CD Applications manifests have been created under the path `idp/<PACKAGE_NAME>` in order to provision the cluster with the following packages:
- `foundation`: installing the mandatory components like: cert-manager, ...
- `kratix`: Deploy the kratix's controller; some default `Destination` and `GitstateStore` resources and register on the gitea server a new git organization: `kratix` and repository: `state`

To create such an IDPlatform, execute the following command with the following ports:

| Name              | Ingress port | Gitea HTTP port | Gitea SSH port | kind config file name                                              |
|-------------------|--------------|-----------------|----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Kratix IDPlatform | 8443         | 32223           | 32222          | [kratix-idp-8443.cfg](idp/kratix-idp-8443.cfg) |

```shell
idpbuilder create --color --dev-password \
  --name kratix \
  --port 8443 \
  --kind-config idp/kratix-idp-8443.cfg \
  -p idp/foundation \
  -p idp/kratix
```

TODO: Convert the `idp/kratix` resources folder into a helm chart able to configure path of the resources, URL of the gitea server, destination's labels, etc

When done, you can access the Argo CD: https://argocd.cnoe.localtest.me:8443 or Gitea - https://gitea.cnoe.localtest.me:8443 dashboards using the following credentials:
```shell
❯ idp get secrets
NAME                          NAMESPACE   USERNAME     PASSWORD    TOKEN                                      DATA
argocd-initial-admin-secret   argocd      admin        developer                                              
gitea-credential              gitea       giteaAdmin   developer   34d333ee4330d441c3da782fd4bc443a848e5a1b   
```

## Test the IDPlatform with a Postgresql promise  

To validate that the platform is working and can operate `promises`, execute the following commands:
```
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/syntasso/promise-postgresql/main/promise.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/syntasso/promise-postgresql/main/resource-request.yaml
```
Wait till the Postgresql operator finished to create the pod running the database and then access the pod

```shell
kubectl rollout status deployment postgres-operator -n default --timeout=180s

kubectl exec -it acid-example-postgresql-0 -- sh -c "
PGPASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret postgres.acid-example-postgresql.credentials.postgresql.acid.zalan.do -o 'jsonpath={.data.password}' | base64 -d) \
PGUSER=$(kubectl get secret postgres.acid-example-postgresql.credentials.postgresql.acid.zalan.do -o 'jsonpath={.data.username}' | base64 -d) \
psql bestdb"
```

## Add new destinations - idpbuilder

To simulate a more natural environment running in a company, we will now create some additional clusters representing either the `dev`, `test` and `prod` machines or different machines created for: `team-1`, `team-2` having different needs, services that kratix can deal with using `Promises` and `requests`.

For that purpose we will create some additional clusters using the `idpbuilder` tool. Prior to create a new cluster, it is needed first to register on the Gitea server
running on the IDPlatform the folders where the dependencies and resources generated from the Promises's requests will be store like a Destination CR to let Kratix to 
apply the resources to the target worker cluster where an Argo CD agent is running.

To achieve this goal we will install a new package on the cluster using the helm chart `kratix-new-destination` able to populate the needed resources and to execute a gitea curl job to create the folders `dependencies` and `resources` for a worker

```shell
idpbuilder create --color --dev-password \
  --name kratix \
  --port 8443 \
  --kind-config idp/kratix-idp-8443.cfg \
  -p idp/foundation \
  -p idp/kratix \
  -p idp/kratix-new-destination/kratix-new-destination-1.yaml
```

So let's create some worker clusters having the following ports

| Name     | Ingress port | kind config file name                      |
|----------|--------------|--------------------------------------------|
| worker 1 | 8444         | [worker-1-8444.cfg](idp/worker-1-8444.cfg) |
| worker 2 | 8445         | [worker-1-8445.cfg](idp/worker-1-8445.cfg) |

As the gitea server is running on the Kratix IDPlatform  at the following address: `http://<HOST_IP_ADDRESS>:32223`, we will have to patch the Application CR of the `kratix-agent` before to deploy. Execute then this command before to create the different workers 

```shell
yq e '.spec.source.helm.valuesObject.giteaServer.url = "http://<HOST_IP_ADDRESS>:32223"' -i idp/kratix-agent/kratix-agent.yaml
```

When done, execute the following command respectively for the `worker-1` and `worker-2`
```shell
idpbuilder create --color --dev-password --recreate \
  --name <WORKER_NAME> \
  --port <INGRESS_PORT> \
  --kind-config idp/<KIND_CONFIG_FILE_NAME> \
  -p idp/kratix-agent
```

When the cluster has been created and Applications deployed, verify their status to check if the Application CR is sync and healthy

```shell
export CONTEXT="kind-worker-1" # set CONTEXT "kind-worker-1"
kubectl --context "$CONTEXT" -n argocd get application -lcluster=worker-1
```
If Argocd is able to watch resources from the kratix IDPlatform gitea server under `kratix/state/<WORKKER_NAME/resources | dependencies`, then you can start to play with Kratix and deploy some promises and requests against the different environments

TODO:
- Find a way to provision the kratix IDPlatform with new Destination CR (one for each worker) worker where path refers to its directory under the git repository: `kratix/state/<WORKER_NAME>` and having environment's labels as: `dev`, `test`, `prod` or `team-a`, `team-b` etc

Enjoy ;-)

## Add new destinations - vclusters (DEPRECATED)

To simulate a more natural environment running in a company, we will now create some additional clusters representing either the `dev`, `test` and `prod` machines or different machines created for: `team-1`, `team-2` having different needs, services that kratix can deal with using `Promises` and `requests`.

For that purpose we will create top of the IDPlatform cluster some additional clusters using vcluster - https://www.vcluster.com/docs

So let's create some vclusters: `worker-1` and `worker-2`
```shell
idpbuilder create --color --dev-password \
        --name kratix \
        --port 8443 \
        -p idp/foundation \
        -p idp/kratix \
        -p idp/vcluster
```


**Note**: To access the cluster, it is needed to execute the command: `vcluster connect worker-2` responsible to create a kubectl's container acting as proxy able to access from your laptop the vcluster.

You can create more vclusters if you change the helm values of the Application CR of [kratix-agents.yaml](idp/kratix-agents/kratix-agents.yaml)
```yaml
        clusters:
          - name: worker-1
            path: worker-1
            organization: team-a
          - name: worker-2
            path: worker-2
            organization: team-b
          - name: worker-3
            path: worker-3
            organization: team-c
```

To uninstall a vcluster: `helm uninstall worker-2 -n worker-2`

TODO:
- Use argocd to install the resources of the kratix's agent instead of deploying them manually with the command `k --context "$WORKER1" apply -f kratix-destination/worker-1-resources.yml`
- Generate using a template engine (aka helm) the resources to be created to:
  - Create a vcluster, deploy argocd
  - Install on the vcluster the generated resources: Argo Applications and Secret to access the gitea server
  - Create and execute a new job able to add on the existing gitea server (under the org/repository: `kratix/state`) the folder of the new destination (aka vcluster)
  - Create for the IDPlatform running Kratix new resources: Destination & GitStateStore to register a new destination (aka vcluster)

```shell
k get secret/vc-config-worker-2 -n worker-2 -ojson | jq -r '.data.config' | base64 -d
```
